One thing that I really like doing in my courses is to actually understand the why of everything.
Everything that we learn there should be a reason we're learning it right.
And you might be asking yourself a why do we even care about machine learning how is that useful and
how do we get here.
Well if you think about a business because most technology evolves from business needs we have the advent
of computers and the ability for businesses to use computers to do things really really fast and efficiently
so that they gain an edge.
And then we got spreadsheets spreadsheets like Excel files and CSP files were amazing because we can
store data that businesses generate such as maybe customers customer data into an excel file and then
people got really really good at analyzing these CSP files these spreadsheets to make business decisions.
Maybe forecasting that December sales are going to be high because while the past two years we've had
really high December sales because of Christmas and then as companies got more and more data we started
getting this idea of the relational databases spreadsheets were great CSP files were great but we started
getting more and more information and data and we needed a better way to organize things to understand
things from our data.
That's when we got things like my askew El which allowed us instead of using spreadsheets to use a language
called ask you well to read information from our database right information to our database but similar
to spreadsheets use the data that we gathered from the business to make business decisions so that our
business becomes even more profitable.
And then in 2000 we had this fancy term of big data we had big companies like Facebook Amazon Twitter
Google that started accumulating more and more data an insane amount of data that you simply couldn't
contain in a spreadsheet.
User actions user likes user purchasing histories this idea of big data meant that we had so much data
these companies had so much data and sometimes unlike relational databases which had to be a structured
form of data sometimes we got really messy unstructured data and that's where we started getting this
idea of no Eskew well where things like Mongo D.B. came into existence where you can store unstructured
data and hopefully make business decisions out of that.
Maybe if you were Amazon you can use customers purchasing history to recommend different products.
And ever since then this idea of data getting more and more data has turned us into using machine learning
because at some point we have so much data that as humans we can't just look like we did at spreadsheets
and look at columns Ambrose and make business decisions.
I mean we still could but then we'd be wasting all this data that we've been getting over the years.
So companies like Facebook and Google that collect massive amounts of data every single day are turning
to things like machine learning so that instead of humans looking at the data and trying to figure things
out we give this data to machines so that they're better able even better than humans to make business
decisions.
And this idea of machine learning really came to be because of this growth in data that we received
from businesses as well as the improvements in CPE use GP use that is graphical processing units and
computer advancements.
So using the massive amounts of data and massive improvements in computation we can use these machines
to give them this big data and make decision for us just like we used to with spreadsheets now.
This is a simplified version of how we got here but I hope it gives you a reason as to why businesses
like this idea of machine learning I'll see in the next video by.